matheus gusman
what the difference between future simple and future continuous, can you explain each one of them

Yes, I can explain the difference between future simple and future continuous.

Future simple is used to talk about actions or events that will happen in the future. It is formed using the auxiliary verb "will" and the base form of the verb. For example:

I will go to the store tomorrow.
She will finish her project by Friday.
They will arrive at the airport at 6 PM.
Future continuous, on the other hand, is used to talk about actions or events that will be in progress at a specific time in the future. It is formed using the auxiliary verb "will" + "be" + the present participle (-ing form) of the verb. For example:

I will be studying for my exam at this time tomorrow.
She will be presenting her report to the board of directors next week.
They will be traveling to Paris this time next year.
In summary, future simple talks about actions that will happen in the future, while future continuous talks about actions that will be in progress at a specific time in the future.

matheus gusman
how the difference between will e going, how i know witch use
The main difference between "will" and "going to" is the level of certainty about the future event.

"Will" is used when we talk about something that is likely to happen or when we are making a prediction based on our opinion or intuition. For example: "I will go to the gym tomorrow."

"Going to" is used when we talk about something that we have planned or intended to do in the future. It suggests that we have already made a decision and that we are committed to the action. For example: "I am going to visit my grandmother this weekend."

So, to decide which one to use, think about the level of certainty you have about the future event. If you are making a prediction or expressing an opinion, use "will". If you have already made a plan or decision, use "going to".


matheus gusman
can you explain the simple future and future continuous using going
Sure! The simple future and future continuous are both verb tenses that are used to talk about future actions or events. The main difference between the two is how they express the future.

The simple future is formed with the modal verb "will" + base form of the verb. For example, "I will go to the store tomorrow." This sentence is saying that the speaker plans to go to the store in the future.

On the other hand, the future continuous is formed with the verb "to be" + "going to" + base form of the verb. For example, "I am going to be studying all night." This sentence is saying that the speaker has plans to study all night in the future.

As you can see, the future continuous puts more emphasis on the ongoing nature of the action, while the simple future simply states that the action will happen in the future.

You can also use "going to" with the simple future to express plans or intentions. For example, "I am going to go to the store tomorrow." This sentence uses "going to" to indicate the speaker's plans, but still uses the simple future tense to state the action.

I hope this explanation helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

matheus gusman
when i use will have been
We use "will have been" to talk about an action or event that will have started in the past and will still be in progress at a specific point in the future. This tense is used for actions or events that will have a duration up to a specific time in the future.

For example:

By next year, I will have been working at this company for 5 years.
By the time I graduate, I will have been studying English for 10 years.
This time next week, they will have been on vacation for 2 weeks.


